we're joined Now by alzer senior
political analyst Maron bisha Let's uh
talk a little bit more about this Janine
Hospital attack it's a Brazen attack is
it a violation of international
humanitarian law look I'm no legal
scholar but for me this is a clear
violation of any human decency legality
morality or or anything that resembles
anything because these things these
legalities have been created so that
this is not done to any to anyone
whether it's on the Israeli side or the
Palestinian or The American or the
Iranian or Lebanese or whatever side in
the end of the day there's a certain
sacredness to a hospital or to a school
or to a mosque or to a church but in
this very particular
case the the Palestinian activist the
militant he he's been there for a while
and his brother his only brother came to
visit him there was
no
reportedly uh preparation for another
October 7 operation these were two
brothers one of them was almost
paralyzed so the Israelis you know
basically the way they've conducted this
operation against this Hospital killing
people as patients not
as militants in a battlefield you know
that certainly is not is is not is is no
less than you know an act of Terror in
fact by the Israeli state do you think
there's a greater sense of impunity on
the Israeli side since October 7th since
the war on Gaza there certainly has been
uh clearly as Biden predicted President
Biden predicted the Israelis are angry
there's they are vengeful and so on so
forth but there is another aspect to
that they are losing uh or at least they
are incapable of achieving their
objectives in the War uh and hence
they're making up for their impotence
and their failure by taking it out on
the civilian
population and it's this certain
exhibitionism that we haven't seen
before in as much apparently there are
also more reservers meaning just a
larger sector of the Israeli public is
participating in this operation and that
their behavior shows just how right-wing
how fascistic how fanatical the Israeli
Society has become all of that in fact
uh uh Laura it it reminds me of this
very
genius one of those Jewish Geniuses
right there's some of them and this very
particular Israeli Jewish genius by the
name of U yes yahu
liovic he was a philosopher he was an
orthodox Jew conservative but he was
also a biochemist a
philosopher a talmud scholar lived until
he was 90 in
Israel and and after the 1967 occupation
he
predicted that Israeli soldiers will
turn into what he called what he called
Judo
nais he said and he encouraged Israeli
young people not to join the Israeli
military because he said as long as
Israel becomes an occupying power
eventually dominating other people will
lead them to become fascist themselves
I'm reminded of him nowadays as I see
this sadism this
exhibitionism this U egregious acts on
the part of the Israeli military
everywhere and the fact that they boast
about it the fact they laugh about it
and you see these Israelis diffusing
these videos countless videos about
their heroism against Palestinian
children and women and and and civilians
that's just too ugly we get it back more
to the politics we've got Ismail hania
the uh political head of Hamas heading
to Cairo talking about movement on a
proposal for a ceasefire why do you
think we are seeing movement now some
three weeks after all the talks were
dead in the water following the
assassination of that top Hamas leader
in Beirut I think there's a good number
of reason on all fronts right I think um
of course the Palestinians are fed up
with being bombed starved and and this
and that and the other and I think Hamas
understands that I think the Israelis
have basically bombed everything that's
bombable or not bombable in in the Gaza
Strip I think whatever is left in kanun
and RAF I mean now there's concentration
of more than a half one and a half
million people there so I'm not sure how
far they can go I think the Americans
are the ones who are really getting
their clock uh reaching its end because
it's an election year it's getting
really out of hand in Yemen in Jordan in
Syria in Iraq and you know in Lebanon
and elsewhere and Biden keeps saying
each and every day we don't want a
regional
war and certainly I would think he
doesn't want after he committed to end
the forever Wars and certainly a war
with Iran as the Republicans now are
pushing him in the United States that's
not going to be conducive neither to
America Norther to the Biden
Administration not to Biden himself so
there's a number of clocks ticking and I
think there is uh you know will on the
part of the Egyptians and certainly the
kares to mediate something in the war
and have this exchange of captives and
prisoners but when you hear prime
minister Netanyahu saying no no no no
we're not going to release we're gonna
we're not going to release you know
prisoners we thousands of prisoners
we're going to continue with the war and
so on so forth you would ask what is
going on is he just talking to his base
is he just preparing himself to a
blinkin visit pressure on him no we
don't but we will find out soon enough
Mar and Bash thanks very much